#summary Other Visual Programming Environments.
#labels Featured

= A growing family =

Blockly is one of a growing number of visual programming environments.  Many of these languages have roots at MIT, leading to a similar look and feel across different products.  Blockly was influenced by [http://www.appinventor.mit.edu/ App Inventor], which in turn was influenced by [http://scratch.mit.edu/ Scratch].

= Blockly's distinguishing features =

Blockly was designed with the following requirements:
  * Execute in a web-browser.  No downloads or plugins needed.
  * Exportable code.  Users can extract their programs as !JavaScript, Dart, Python or other language so that when they outgrow Blockly they can keep learning.
  * Open source.  Everything about Blockly is open: you can fork it, hack it, and use it in your own websites.
  * Highly capable.  With the ability to calculate standard deviation using a single block, Blockly is not a toy.

Equally important is a negative characteristic:
  * Blockly in itself is not an educational platform.  Blockly is an editor that may be used as part of an educational platform, or as part of a business suite, or as part of a gaming system, etc.

= Alternatives =

Wikipedia currently lists about a hundred [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Visual_programming_language visual programming environments].  Please check them out before choosing one.  Visual programming environments are still evolving quickly and as a community we are still learning what works and what doesn't.