#Tutorial for Blockly users who want to write programs that help Pegman navigate the Maze.

*Introduction to Blockly*

Blockly is a new programming language made of "blocks" that look like Jigsaw puzzle pieces.

*Activity*

Write a Blockly program that leads Pegman through the maze to his destination. 

*See How it Works*

Click the *Run Program* button that appears underneath the maze, and see Pegman move forward one square. This is because the *move forward* block already appears in the workspace on the right.

*Get Pegman to His Destination*

1. In the *Blocks* menu, click *Maze*.
You'll see all the Maze blocks. You'll only need the *move forward*, *turn left*, and *turn right* blocks.

2. Click a block to place it in the workspace. 
*Tip*: If you add the same block again, the new block is placed on top of the block that is already there. That's okay because you can drag blocks out of the stack later. Just don't forget they are there.

3. Drag and drop your blocks where you want them. Your program will run the blocks from top to bottom. 

4. Click the *Reset* button under the maze. Now click the *Run Program* button that appears. 
Watch Pegman go through the maze to reach his destination.

*Make Your Program Better*
1. Notice that your program has a pattern.






Play Around
Make Pegman go through the maze backwards.
Make Pegman go through the loop.

See and Notice



Start
Drag and drop the blocks you think you might need to your workspace. Most blocks have multiple options. For example, the "move forward" block also has a "move backward" option. 

Click the block to place it on the workspace. You can also drag and drop the block to anyplace on your workspace.

Most blocks have highlighted words. The highlight indicates that there is more than one option to choose from. Click the highlighted word to select from all the options. 

For example, on the "move forward" block, the word "forward" is highlighted. Clicking "forward" lets you select either the "forward" or "backward" option. 

Troubleshooting

My program runs the same block more than once.

Why?
You probably went to the Blocks menu, clicked the block to place it in the workspace, and then went back to the Blocks menu and clicked the same block again. This stacks the blocks on top of each other. You can't see that there is more than one block in the same place, but when you run your program, each of the blocks run. (That could be cool if that's what you wanted. If you didn't intend it, though, it's no fun.)

How do I fix this?
Drag and drop the block to some other place on your workspace. If there was a block underneath it, you'll see it now. Keep doing that until there is only one block in the stack.


My program doesn't act like I expected.

Why?
Blockly runs the blocks from top to bottom. If your blocks are arranged in an order that doesn't make sense, your program might act in unexpected ways. Try re-arranging blocks. 