#summary Information about translation for Blockly developers

This document provides what developers should know about Blockly translations.  Translators should read [https://code.google.com/p/blockly/wiki/Translation this document] instead.

= Introduction =

Internationalization (i18n) is one of Blockly's top priorities.  See, for example, [https://neil.fraser.name/news/2013/03/16/ CS in VN].  We are proud to have support for right-to-left and left-to-right scripts and that the [http://blockly-demo.appspot.com/static/apps/puzzle/index.html Puzzle application] has been translated into over 50 languages but will not be satisfied until all of Blockly has been.

= !TranslateWiki =
We use [http://www.translatewiki.net TranslateWiki] as our translation console and translator community.  We provide them with the following files:
  * *qqq.json*, mapping message names to _message documentation_ (information for translators).
  * *en.json*, mapping message names to the English-language text.  Note that we use Canadian English.
  * *_LANG_.json*, mapping message names to the appropriate language text.  Messages that have not been translated to the given language will not be present in this file.
_LANG_ is (loosely) an [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IETF_language_tag IETF language tag], such as "de" for German or "pt-br" for Brazilian Portuguese.

Here are links to files for translating the tutorials and applications:
  * [https://code.google.com/p/blockly/source/browse/trunk/apps/qqq.json apps/qqq.json]
  * [https://code.google.com/p/blockly/source/browse/trunk/apps/en.json apps/en.json]
  * [https://code.google.com/p/blockly/source/browse/trunk/apps/de.json apps/de.json] (as one example of a language file).

= Applications and Tutorials =

== Soy-based translation ==

The Blockly applications and tutorials (henceforth referred to as "apps") are built with "Soy", also known as [https://developers.google.com/closure/templates/ Google Closure templates], which has [https://developers.google.com/closure/templates/docs/translation translation tools].  Specifically, all messages appear in files whose name ends with the "soy" extension.   Messages used by multiple apps are defined in [https://code.google.com/p/blockly/source/browse/trunk/apps/common.soy apps/common.soy], and have the prefix "Apps."  Messages used by only a single app are defined in that app's template.soy file, such as [https://code.google.com/p/blockly/source/browse/trunk/apps/maze/template.soy apps/maze/template.soy] and prefixed with the name of the application, such as "Maze.".

Here is an example of a message definition:

{{{
{msg meaning="Maze.moveForward" 
     desc="block text - Imperative or infinitive of a verb for a person moving 
               (walking) in the direction he/she is facing."}
  move forward
{/msg}
}}}
